Cool, I really want to show that address
copy because I thought it was a really
cool feature and in here,
let's just put back our asterisks here, so
that we are going to persist
the changing of our value here.
Now there is another concept
I want to discuss, and
it's basically going to be how
you can declare a variable
as a pointer,
to the memory address of something.
Bear with me.
So let's say we have A,
A is declared as an int/ that's all it is.
We just print A, it's going to give us 7.
Let's create B,
B is going to be a pointer to A.
Okay, nothing too crazy,
let's print this line.
And I wanna actually ask,
what are we gonna get when I print B?
What is B going to be?
>> Address?
>> Yeah, the memory address, so that's
what the ampersand does it doesn't print
the value or what's stored in the memory,
it's a pointer to where that memory was
allocated to where it's pointing to.
So it's gonna point us to
where A is allocated memory.
So if you run this you can see here,
this is B, right?
It's just an address, but what if I wanna
change the value of my pointer, okay?
If I do something like B is now 9,
can I use 9 untyped in
constant as pointer and or
reference INT value in assignment.
So if you want, what we have to
do is called the referencing
the allocated memory to actually change
the value and we can use as it shows here.
So this is kind of that dual
meaning of the asterisk gets
a little murky right now, but what
the asterisk is doing now is it's saying.
I have this new int this 9, the native
type that was allocated when I first
instantiated A, and
instead of giving the memory address or
re-declare the memory address as 9 because
you can't do that, we're basically saying,
hey, dereference the actual value of
where the memory is allocated and
assign it this new int of 9, okay?
So here,
if we keep the same print statement,
I'm actually going to go back up here.
I'm going to comment this out and clear
this just for now, if I actually rerun
this it's still the memory address,
we haven't changed anything.
But if I now dereference it,
and I run it, it's 9.
But question, what is A?
What if I print A what
value is A gonna have?
>> 7 right?
>> 7 or 9, let's find out.
If we change this to A and
we re-assign it, it's 9,
because B is the pointer, right?
It points to the actual allocated member
of A, so if we de-reference it and
re-assign a value, it's going to
impact the D reference B, but also A,
when we first initialize that variable.
Cool, if you've never dealt with pointers
or anything, it can get a little dicey,
but just remember a core kind of
principle is if you want to change and
modify the values of the struct or
the type upon instantiation declaration,
you have to pass it in as
a pointer reference, okay?
But if you are comfortable with
just a copy of this truck for
maybe logging or whatever other purpose
you don't need to put it in as a pointer.
Yes.
>> So your fields are all capitalized?
>> Yes.
>> Even though they're fields.
>> Yeah.
>> And
then also you capitalized that function,
is that because it's returning a struct?
>> No, great question, you're peeking
behind the currents of the next portion,
but I do want to answer it, right now,
this is just like new person.
It's kind of habit the way I wrote
it I'm not gonna lie because
here on function 10 is new person
declaration capital N but for some reason,
this is not capital it's a habit, because
like I said earlier, when I know I'm
gonna have a book person type or
a person struck and I'm gonna use it.
I'm gonna probably import this
function to somewhere else and
declare that function to
get the person right.
And in go making a function public is
only denoted with the capitalization
of the first letter.
So I'm gonna get into that into the next
kind of module like model here or
module, but
that's a tidbit of information.
So everything that's not capitalized is
gonna live in the scope of the package,
everything that's capitalized can
be improved by other packages.
So, I'll show you an example if maybe
that concept is a little wonky okay,
we're almost done.
This goes much deeper.
I wanna go back to our looping here for
a second.
>> Before we get on, can I nested
struct can be copied by assigning?
>> Yes, a nested copy,
if you have a nested struck and
you pass it in, everything will be
copied from the from the nested struck.
Every time it's gonna make a new
copy of whatever you pass it in,
which is another point of there is that
you can kind of get away, like in this
kind of let's say toy example, you can
get away doing passing by reference or
passing by copy cause our struct
has two fields it's whatever.
Our computers can eat that no problem,
if you have a super long struck with
multiple different fields and it has like
a nested STRs passing by copy is costly.
When it gets to that scale, right, that's
where it might be more efficient to pass
the actual reference instead of making
a new copy, passing it down your logic, so
you can do, you can just pass
that struck by reference.
So a lot of the time you would actually
see in more heavier duty code,
that this function here that returns
our person struck is actually always
going to be the reference to
to the struck here, right.
You probably see something like this
happen all the time, cause we wanna return
a struck that's gonna be the actual
reference when it's stantialized and then,
we avoid passing as a copy every
time we call methods on that truck,
changing the property, modifying
the property, aggregating it, whatever.
Any questions on that?
>> When you are dealing with copies and
stuff, is there any kind of track
like cleanup memory you need to do?
>> The garbage.
>> That's too far in the weeds we can.
>> No, no, no, no it's not far.
No not at all, the garbage collector of
go which I briefly mentioned earlier,
does all that for you.
But that isn't excuse to kind of be
negligible in that perspective because you
still run the risk of your heap being to
allocated, if you have a leaky pointer,
right, if you have something it's pointing
to something that's no longer used and
it's massive, you run the risk of like
merging your heap or going over it right.
So there's this concept that a garbage
collector does a lot of things under
the bed kind of under the hood for us,
but you do have to be aware that does has
an underlying cost and it could come
back and bite you, so you have to use.
That's kinda where the engineer in
software program will come into and
make a decision.
Really good question, thank you.
Okay, one more thing about this whole
topic of pointers and everything,
I wanna go back to our
good friend looping.
So I'm gonna make a new slice.
My slice, slice SIO is going to be I don't
know, let's just say it's a slice and
it's int, and we gonna make 1,
2, and 3, okay?
And my task is to increment
these values in the slice.
Pretty easy loop Add 1, okay?
So let's do that, so for index value,
I'm gonna use range myslice, okay?
And here, because we only
are interested in the value,
we can do something that's
pretty interesting to go.
So if there's a return value that you
do not want to use, cuz if we don't use
index, we're not gonna compile
the compiler Is gonna keep yelling at us.
I'm like, man please stop yelling at me.
We can do is just put underscore here.
So now we ignored it.
We essentially ignored the index and
the return type, so
now our compiler doesn't care, it's like,
okay, I see you're ignoring it I'll shop
now, but you still do not use value.
Let's just do value because
we need to increment value++.
We increment the value, okay?
If we do fmt::print, print loin and
we do my slice and we save it.
If we print this,
what do you all think is gonna happen?
Probably you kinda figured out
that's still going to be 123.
So even the built-in range function,
when you increment the value,
it is a copy of the value in the slice,
it is not the allocated reference
to that slice, all right.
If you wanna actually modify
the underlying value of the slice and
persist it and actually allocate
the memory, or change the memory,
that's where we have to
bring back the index.
We can actually ignore this copy and
what we do here is my slice
referenced at the index I
could type that would be
really nice index ++.
And so now, if you run it,
it should say 2, 3, 4 there you go.
So it's another gotcha that if I
introduced iterating over a slice I want
to showcase how you can fix that.
>> How can you return reference of
a struct wouldn't the reference then live
shorter than the struct?
>> How can you return
the reference of the struct?
Well, you could return the reference.
Let's just go back up here.
With this syntax here this is
returning the reference of the struck.
And so every time we use that struck
now we're always going to be passing
the reference of that struck and
never like there's no I don't know the
second portion like the can you repeat it?
>> When the reference live
shorter than the struct
>> I think I understand that question.
So that kinda going back to
what you asked earlier is,
you will still always have a reference
to the memory allocate to that struck.
And if you do remove that struck or
it's unused,
you'll still have that memory allocation
you saw something referencing that memory,
and that's how you can have like
leaking memory usage as well.
So that reference can
exist past the stroke and
you will be kinda referencing allocate
memory that no longer exists and
then that could be pretty
buggy in your code.